Minutes for 2021-09-01 (#254)
solid/authorization-panel: meetings/2021-09-01.md

Read and Write a for sure good. Indeed, I have [implemented a Web Server](https://github.com/bblfish/lens-play/blob/master/src/main/scala/server/Server.scala) using 
a very simple data structure for containers, together with a concept from Functional Programming 
called Lenses. Lenses are essentially built out of two types of operations: getter and setters;
or Read and Write operations. With those operation one can build up all
of LDP. 
But I think Control is in the wrong place. I don't see it as type of mode, I see it as relation.

**Eric** I think this is just a linguistic confusion. Control just stands for edit the 
access control resource.

**Sarven** Some other ACL mechanisms model control, they also use term owner. Google's ACL uses owner.

**Pavlik** 

> **Sarven** In WAC we treat ACL as data points as well. Even possibility of ACL having ACL suggests that they should be considered as data point. 

Author: A data point on what?

I agree that it can be achieved in a different way. The aspect of operations has been in the protocol for quite a while. 
Operations are not just atomic modes but class of operations e.g. write includes create and delete. See https://github.com/solid/web-access-control-spec/issues/85 .

> I talked to Kjetilk about why create the operation issue under authorization-panel - it was to create engagement. Protocol has some of those definitions 

Author: what does that mean "to create engagement"?

of operations and WAC currently defines mapping of HTTP methods to access modes only to inform developers. 
Currently operations are normative whereas specific HTTP methods are non-normative. 

> The reason is eg. PUT typically needs Write mode, but PUT + If-None-Match: * would need Write and Read.

Author: Also a bit difficult to follow.

Indeed, I have [implemented a Web Server](https://github.com/bblfish/lens-play/blob/master/src/main/scala/server/Server.scala) using 
a very simple data structure for containers, together with a concept from Functional Programming 
called Lenses (see [An Introduction to Lenses in JS](https://medium.com/javascript-inside/an-introduction-into-lenses-in-javascript-e494948d1ea5)). 
Lenses are essentially built out of two types of operations: getter and setters;
or Read and Write operations. With those operations, one can build up all
an LDP web server. 
Having said that about Read/Write, I think Control is in the wrong place. 
I don't see it as type of mode, I see it as relation.

**Eric** I think this is just a linguistic confusion. Control just stands for edit the 
access control resource.

**Sarven** Some other ACL mechanisms model control, they also use term owner. Google's ACL uses owner.

**Pavlik** 

**Sarven** In WAC we treat ACL as data points as well. Even possibility of ACL having ACL suggests that they should be considered as data point. 
I agree that it can be achieved in a different way. The aspect of operations has been in the protocol for quite a while. 

> Operations are not just atomic modes but class of operations e.g. write includes create and delete. See https://github.com/solid/web-access-control-spec/issues/85 .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Operations are not just atomic modes, but classes of operations; e.g., write includes create and delete. See https://github.com/solid/web-access-control-spec/issues/85 .
```

I talked to Kjetilk about why create the operation issue under authorization-panel - it was to create engagement. Protocol has some of those definitions 
of operations and WAC currently defines mapping of HTTP methods to access modes only to inform developers. 

> Currently, operations are normative whereas specific HTTP methods are non-normative. 
> The reason is eg. PUT typically needs Write mode, but PUT + If-None-Match: * would need Write and Read.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, operations are normative, whereas specific HTTP methods are non-normative. 
The reason is, e.g., `PUT` typically needs only `Write` mode, but `PUT + If-None-Match: *` would need both `Write` and `Read`.
```

**Henry** 
  To Eric's point above: the reason I am reaching out to Category Theory, is that 
it is the mathematics of structures. What it tells us is that Dynamic Systems can be
modelled using essentially just these Read and Write operations. See the maths
discussed on [web-cats](https://gitlab.com/web-cats/CG/-/issues/28#note_666179055). 
Since we can also do [without Control mode](https://github.com/solid/web-access-control-spec/issues/94), 
that indicates that it is not a structural necessary piece at the level of Read and Write.
It should be modelled differently (via the `Link` header).
  

> **Sarven** PATCH can include DELETE, so in that case it will require read and write.
> 
> **Pavlik** can we have Write without Read?
> 
> **Pavlik** How do we see that List mode, can we separate reading container description and the list of containment triples?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Sarven** `PATCH` can include `DELETE`, so in that case it will require `read` and `write`.

**Pavlik** can we have `Write` without `Read`?

**Pavlik** How do we see that `List` mode? can we separate reading container description and the list of containment triples?
```

> **Sarven** List would be limited type of Read. It seems that we are coming to consensus on listing containers. We have this understanding of what container is and what container description can be. The starting point seems to be that description includes containment. There is legitimate case to get some useful information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Sarven** `List` would be limited type of `Read`. It seems that we are coming to consensus on listing containers. We have this understanding of what container is, and what container description can be. The starting point seems to be that description includes containment. There is legitimate case to get some useful information.
```

> **Justin** having Update / Modify on container means for me that one can change the non-server managed (containement) triples. To change those one would need Created (which would result in adding) and Delete (removing)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Justin** having `Update` / `Modify` on container means for me that one can change the non-server managed (containment) triples. To change those one would need `Create` (which would result in adding) and `Delete` (removing)
```

**Sarven** I'd like to see actual applications before hypothesising.

> **Henry** I think we should take some use cases, try to implement them as we have done in in the evaluation
> section https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/tree/main/proposals/evaluation
> and see if we can use the minimal Read/Write modes, and then we can try our best using existing modes, and then see why exactly a new mode would be necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Henry** I think we should take some use cases, try to implement them as we have done in
[the evaluation section](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/tree/main/proposals/evaluation) 
and see if we can use the minimal `Read`/`Write` modes, and then we can try our best using existing modes, and then see why exactly a new mode would be necessary.
```

> **Pavlik** I don't think Append on a container should imply Create, it should only allow adding new statements to the container resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Pavlik** I don't think `Append` on a container should imply `Create`; it should only allow adding new statements to the container resource.
```

**Justin** Access Modes should provide specificity to define access exactly the way one wants.

> When it comes to dogfooding it hard if current systems don't support it. We do have use cases which detail Create, Delete, Update and real world cases when current access modes lead to over permissioning. I would like to understand what else is requested besides use cases that are already included.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When it comes to dogfooding, it's hard if current systems don't support it. We do have use cases which detail `Create`, `Delete`, `Update`, and real world cases where current access modes lead to over-permissioning. I would like to understand what else is requested besides use cases that are already included.
```

**Henry** re append, I thought a bit about [it here](https**//gitlab.com/web-cats/CG/-/issues/28#note_666387691) with regard to lenses

**Henry** I think use cases are very good. I think we should do what we did in evaluation section, seeing how it would work with HTTP methods etc.

> **Sarven** GOTO 57

Author: @csarven what does that mean? Something may have gotten lost in the notes there.

### Other

**Sarven** Minutes should only include what was discussed in the meeting. 

> We can fix typos but don't add more information. We should do that in Issues, PRs or elsewhere. See [my comment on Gitter on May 05 11:31 in Solid/Specification](https://gitter.im/solid/specification?at=609265f3f7e4221825bae33d). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can fix typos but don't add more information. We should do that in Issues, PRs, or elsewhere. See [my comment on Gitter on May 05 11:31 in Solid/Specification](https://gitter.im/solid/specification?at=609265f3f7e4221825bae33d). 
```

**Sarven** In WAC we treat ACL as data points as well. Even possibility of ACL having ACL suggests that they should be considered as data point. 
I agree that it can be achieved in a different way. The aspect of operations has been in the protocol for quite a while. 

> Operations are not just atomic modes, but classes of operations; e.g., write includes create and delete. See https://github.com/solid/web-access-control-spec/issues/85 .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Operations are not just atomic modes, but classes of operations; for instance, `write` includes `create` and `delete`. See https://github.com/solid/web-access-control-spec/issues/85 .
```

I talked to Kjetilk about why create the operation issue under authorization-panel - it was to create engagement. Protocol has some of those definitions 
of operations and WAC currently defines mapping of HTTP methods to access modes only to inform developers. 
Currently, operations are normative, whereas specific HTTP methods are non-normative. 

> The reason is, e.g., `PUT` typically needs only `Write` mode, but `PUT + If-None-Match: *` would need both `Write` and `Read`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reason is, for instance, `PUT` typically needs only `Write` mode, but `PUT + If-None-Match: *` would need both `Write` and `Read`.
```
